16 Dec, 1998

Release Notes - glDoom version 0.94d

WARNING: Do NOT move glDoom once you have run it once. It
writes the program's location into the win.ini file the first
time it is run so that it will always know where the gldoom.ini
file is.  If you rename the directory or move the program and
delete the old directory you make it IMPOSSIBLE for the program
to keep an updated gldoom.ini file.

Since glDoom uses InstallShield to install itself, it also creates
a menu option on the start menu to run it as well as a link to the
glDoom.doc file.  It also puts a menu option up to remove the program
from your system.  (as well as in the "Add/Remove Programs" applet in
the Control Panel)  If you move glDoom after installation, you break
the links for the these menu options and the uninstall program.

Don't move it unless you know how to correct these things manually.
If you want to move it, then UNINSTALL it and remove the glDoom section
from your win.ini file.  Then reinstall it where you want it.

The preferred method of running glDoom is from the Start menu.

Maintenance release

Bugs fixed in this released are:

1. ALT key function not working. The ALT keys function separately, now.

2. Inability to switch levels in Ultimate Doom. This code was revamped.

3. Music menu option moving up and locking program. Menu motion disabled.

4. Reset to defaults in keybindings menu causing input lockout. Does not
   reset to defaults, yet but also does not lockup.  Defaults have not
   been determined completely at this time.


Modifications in this release are:

1. -nosound command line switch and detection of sound card
   presence. Systems with no sound card or inaccessible
   sound card should no longer "lock up" but play with sound
   off.  nosound will be set in the gldoom.ini file if you
   use set the -nosound parameter or cvar.  To turn sound
   back on set nosound back to 0.  If sound card is not
   available sound will not work.  I am working on separate
   parameters to control sound effects and music so that one
   can be turned off and the other left on...

2. A new cvar has been added: mouse_factor.  This cvar is a
   multiplier for the mouse_sensitivity settings and will
   be multiplied with each to get the mouse vertical and
   horizontal "travel" values.  Setting the mouse_factor
   to 0 will disable the mouse's axes so be careful with
   that.  The default value is 1. The maximum value is 4.
   The mouse sensitivity is already double from the previous
   values so make sure you don't make it too sensitive or
   you won't be able to aim.

3. Added the mvert key to the key bindings menu.  The mvert
   key toggles the mvert variable which turns the y axis of
   the mouse on and off. (no back and forth motion)  The key
   defaults to "/".

4. In an effort to correct the context switching caused by some
   ill-behaved mouse drivers, I have re-enabled the WS_EX_TOPMOST
   window style. This may fix this problem but since it was never
   reported by any of the 26 alpha testers, it is not a common
   problem and so can only be tested by those experiencing it.
   If, the program locks up when you start it in full-screen mode,
   you will probably not be able to get out of the program any
   way other than a reboot. Sorry, but I have to do this to try
   to fix this problem.

   If you don't have this mouse problem but get the MMSYSTEM errors
   you can use the -notop command line option which turns off the
   WS_EX_TOPMOST window style in fullscreen mode so that it does
   not lock up the program if that dialogue box appears. DO NOT
   turn this off unless you get the MMSYSTEM messages or lock
   ups during startup.

5. 15 bit color modes are now "acceptable" to the program although
   they cut the number of available colors in half (looks terrible).
   Also, on systems where the video mode list is not available the
   program will attempt to run anyway as long as no resolution or
   color depth change is required. (meaning you have to use the
   desktop resolution)  On systems that have only 15 bit color
   desktops but use 3Dfx pass-through cards, the Voodoo card will
   still display 16 bit color.

6. Shored up the original IDMUS code so it wouldn't try to let
   any and all characters through as part of the cheat.  The original
   Linux code didn't check the cheat parameter for validity. It
   assumed that the player knew how to use it and would do it right.
   It now rejects any invalid entries rather than blow up.

Notes:

I. Keylink option removed.

The keylink option has been removed. It was more trouble than
it was worth. I may make it possible to bind two keys to the
same function later on but not right now.  That would come
with a new set of internal commands which would be independent
of what system the code is running on. This will also make it
more portable by platform than the current scancode approach
and will make it possible to have network games between various
platforms (i.e. Win32 and MAC)

II. Numeric Keypad

It is now and always has been possible to use the keys on the
numeric keypad for key bindings.

III. glDoom internal controls.

I am designing a new internal command system which will make it
possible to bind multiple keys to the same command.  All inputs
will be bindable to any game action. (some won't make sense but
since when does that stop you... ;o)  I hope to have this new
command setup done by the end of the year or right after New
Years.  It will be necessary to be able to move to client server
to have this already done.  It will also simplify the internal
command parser.

The key bindings (syntax) will be updated to reflect this as
will the control setups menu.  It will not be referred to as
the key bindings menu from that point on.

There will also separate menus added for mouse functions and
joystick functions as well as the ability to enable and
disable the mouse and joystick from within the Setup menu.
